Updated September 6th,2024We appreciate your interest in the graduate program in the Department of Computer Science & Engineering at UC San Diego. We offer PhD and MS degrees in both computer science and computer engineering. We also have a streamlined 5-year BS/MS program for highly qualified UCSD CSE undergraduates. Undocumented students are welcome to apply.The UCSD Application for Graduate Admission opens for Fall 2025 admission from September 4, 2024 until December 18, 2024 at 11:59 p.m. PST. Admission is given for Fall quarter only. We do not admit new students in Spring quarters. All application materials must be submitted through the online application.The GRE is not required for PhD and MS applications for Fall 2025. Applicants may still submit valid scores if they have already taken the test.The TOEFL iBT Special Home Edition will be accepted for admission at both the Master's and PhD levels. However, the TOEFL ITP Plus for China Solution cannot be used to substitute for a standard TOEFL iBT test. The Department will also now accept IELTS scores to verify English language proficiency.For information about the online application and required supplemental documents, please refer to: Application Checklist and Guidelines.Admission to the CSE graduate program is very selective. Our department receives over 6,000 applications annually. (For Grad Data, please click here).We seek applicants with a strong academic background in computer science and engineering and/or a related field and a demonstrated potential for success in graduate school. Each application undergoes a comprehensive review by the CSE Admissions Committee, which examines every component of the application and supplemental materials when considering an applicant for admission. (Standardized test scores and grade point averages (GPA) are an integral part of the evaluation process, but admissions decisions are NOT made based on these components alone.)The MS and PhD degree programs are mutually independent. You may only apply for one program or the other; applications for both the MS and PhD programs will not be accepted. (An MS degree is not required for admission to the PhD program.)Current or former UCSD students in the MS program who wish to continue/transfer to the PhD program, will complete the UCSD Application for Graduate Admission by the general application deadline for the year they are seeking admission (Admission is ONLY given in the Fall quarters.) The application will be reviewed along with those of the external PhD applicants for that admissions cycle. MS to PhD students must complete their application online, but will NOT be able to "submit" the application. Once you have completed your online application, please email csegradinfo-phd@ucsd.edu to notify the team, so we can track your application. When sending an email, please include "MS to PhD Transfer Application Submission", in the subject line. For a complete list of all of the supplemental materials required for the graduate application, please visit our Graduate Application Checklist.If you are interested in enrolling in Computer Science and Engineering classes without being matriculated in a degree program you may do so through the Concurrent Enrollment Program.The CSE department has a limited number of application fee waivers available for PhD international students. Our department will be granting these waivers to students based on factors that include: contributions to diversity; social justice experience; overcoming adversity. Unfortunately, we are not able to grant application fee waivers on the basis of financial need alone. If you would like to request a CSE department fee waiver, please fill out the Fee Waiver Application. (Please note if applying for a fee waiver you must submit your application early at least 2 weeks early. )To be considered for admission, applicants must meet the minimum university and departmental requirements outlined below. All application documents are submitted to the Graduate Division Online application at UCSD Application for Graduate Admission. For a complete list of all of the supplemental materials required for the graduate application, please visit our Graduate Application Checklist.Additional questions about admission into our graduate program may be answered on our Graduate Admissions FAQ page. Please also see the Prospective Student web pages on the Graduate Education and Postdoctoral Affairs (GEPA).Undocumented Students: Undocumented students are welcome to apply. For additional Information: Undocumented Student ServicesA bachelor's degree in computer science, computer engineering, electrical engineering, or mathematics is preferred, but not required. Applicants with a degree in another discipline will be considered for admission if they have completed the minimum required CSE courses or their equivalent. However, it is recommended that applicants without a CSE background take courses beyond the minimum to demonstrate an ability to understand more advanced concepts in computer science and engineering: My bachelors degree isn't in CS. What kind of background should I have before applying to the program?Applicants must hold a bachelor's degree or the equivalent from an accredited institution in the United States or from a recognized university-level academic institution abroad. At least a B average (3.0 GPA) or its equivalent is required for admission. Satisfaction of minimal standards does not, however, guarantee admission, since the number of qualified applicants far exceeds the number of places available. International and U.S. Applicants should refer to the UCSD Academic Policies - Admissions.GRE: The GRE is not required for PhD and MS applications for Fall 2025. Applicants may still submit valid scores if they have already taken the test.Applicants with valid GRE test scores should request that ETS submit the scores directly to the UCSD institution code 4836. The department codes are not necessary. Information about the GRE is available from the Educational Testing Service (ETS) website.TOEFL/IELTS: The Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL) OR the International English Language Testing System (IELTS) is required for international applicants whose native language is not English and who have not studied full-time at a university-level institution where the sole language of instruction is in English.The UCSD TOEFL Institution Code is 4836. No department code is required. The university minimum TOEFL score required for admission is 85 for the internet-based test (iBT). The TOEFL iBT Home Edition will be accepted for admission at both the Master's and PhD levels. For more information on the TOEFL, visit the TOEFL website. An official ETS-reported score must be submitted for an applicant to be admitted into the graduate program.The university minimum IELTS score required for admission is Band Score 7. To submit official test scores to UC San Diego Graduate Division, applicants must contact the IELTS test center where they took the test to request their official test results to be sent to the address below. UC San Diego does not accept unofficial copies of IELTS Test Report Forms from students. An institution code is not required.NOTICE - Normally, UCSD does not permit the duplication of advanced degrees. (Previous professional degrees, however, are not included in this restriction.) Holders of a master's degree in one field may be considered under certain circumstances for admission into a master's degree program in another field (after the admissions faculty committee reviews all application files in any given admissions cycle). Holders of a PhD, in any field, are advised not to apply for admission to the CSE department's PhD program. For more information, please refer to here.To learn more about UC San Diego Graduate Student-related data or data about a specific department before applying, please visit the Division of Graduate Education and Postdoctoral Affairs website linked here.If you are interested in attending future recruitment events and fairs where you are able to connect with Computer Science and Engineering MS and PhD advisors, please complete the following interest form. By submitting this form, you will receive information from UC San Diego.Here are some upcoming events where the Graduate Division will speak with prospective students and offer guidance on everything from admissions to graduate student life.If you still have questions for which you could not find an answer on our website, please email either one of the following:PhD Admissions at csegradinfo-phd@ucsd.eduMS Admissions at csegradinfo-ms@ucsd.eduThe University of California, San Diego does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, national origin, religion, sex, disability, age or sexual orientation in any of its policies, procedures, or practices, including but not limited to academic admission, financial aid, educational services, and student employment.Emergency Action Plan© Regents of the University of California. All rights reserved. Accessibility | Privacy | Terms of UseYou asked and we'll answer! Check out these FAQ's for applicants to our Ph.D., M.E., S.M., and A.B./S.M. programs.Visit the Harvard Griffin Graduate School of Arts and Sciences (GSAS) FAQ's for even more information. Applicants to the Master in Design Engineering should go here for more information. Applicants to the MS/MBA:Engineering Sciences program should go here for more information.We offer admission into the Ph.D. in the following four areas: Applied Mathematics, Applied Physics, Computer Science, and Engineering Sciences. Engineering Sciences includes Bioengineering, Electrical Engineering, Environmental Science and Engineering, and Materials Science and Mechanical Engineering.Note: we do not offer admission into terminal masters degrees in any of these areas.We offer admission into the Master of Science (S.M.) in the following two areas: Computational Science and Engineering and Data Science.We offer admission into the Master of Engineering (M.E.) only in Computational Science and Engineering.SEAS offers the following collaborative options:While there is no perfect set of criteria for admission, we especially look for candidates who:As of the Fall 2023 admissions cycle, applicants may submit two applications to SEAS only if one is for a PhD degree and one is for a master’s (SM or ME) degree. Each application must be unique, containing a separate statement of purpose, transcripts, recommendations, and TOEFL or IELTS test scores. Multiple applications to the SEAS masters or PhD programs will result in the additional applications being withdrawn. Students may also apply to a SEAS program and a non-SEAS program in the Harvard Griffin Graduate School of Arts and Sciences in the same admissions season. It is Harvard Griffin Graduate School policy that an individual may submit no more than three applications to GSAS during the course of his or her academic career.Applicants to the School of Engineering are responsible for fulfilling the requirements listed here and also on the Harvard Griffin GSAS website.We have two application deadlines; one for students applying to our PhD program and one for students applying to any of our terminal masters programs. We cannot accept late applications, so be sure you apply on time!December 1, 2024 is the application deadline for students submitting an application to one of our S.M., M.E., or AB-SM programs.December 15, 2024 is the application deadline for students submitting an application to one of our PhD programs.Note these deadlines do not apply to our MS/MBA: Engineering Sciences nor Master in Design Engineering programs.-Students interested in the Master in Design Engineering with the Harvard Graduate School of Design will find information about applying to that program here.-Students interested in the MS/MBA: Engineering Sciences program offered jointly with Harvard Business School will find information about applying to that program here.The application fee is required to process the application. If you would like to request a fee waiver, you may do so in the Application Fee section of the application. More about the fee waiver process is here.We encourage serious-minded candidates (i.e. those who have a clear sense of what they would like to do and with whom they would like to work) to get in touch with relevant faculty to discuss their research plans. Generally speaking, email is the best way to reach out to faculty. Bear in mind that our faculty receive numerous emails from prospective students and they may not be able to personally respond to all inquiries they receive.The Harvard John A. Paulson School of Engineering and Applied Sciences (SEAS) does not accept the General GRE scores nor Subject Test GRE scores for applicants to our Ph.D. programs or masters degree programs in Computational Science & Engineering and Data Science. Applicants to these programs should not submit official or unofficial GRE scores to us nor mention them anywhere in their application materials.Either the GRE or GMAT is required for applicants applying to the Master of Design Engineering or the MS/MBA: Engineering Sciences programs. The applications for these programs are available via the Graduate School of Design or Harvard Business School, respectively.Note: this policy was officially changed in August 2020 and is in effect for the Fall 2025 admissions cycle.When requesting official score reports from ETS for the TOEFL, indicate the receiving institution as Harvard University Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, Code 3451. There is no department code; you may leave it blank.To check the status of your application, you may log on to your online application account and see what materials have been received and what materials are still missing. The School of Engineering cannot provide information regarding the status of your application or supporting materials, as all materials are submitted to the Harvard Griffin Graduate School of Arts and Sciences (GSAS). The contact information for Harvard Griffin GSAS is:We do not offer rolling admissions. New students are admitted once a year, to begin studying in the fall.Decisions on deferral requests to our PhD programs are made on a case-by-case basis and only after an admitted student has accepted our offer of admission. We do not grant deferrals for our terminal masters programs except in cases with extenuating circumstances. We do not grant deferrals for our masters programs for reasons related to employment or financing the cost of the program.Applicants are required to upload copies of all transcripts into the online application system; these are usually in PDF format. Official transcripts are not required at the time of application; applicants may upload unofficial transcripts for the purposes of the application.SEAS does not have a formal transfer application process and we do not admit "transfer students." All admitted students begin our program as first year graduate students. All students complete the standard Harvard Griffin GSAS graduate application. After entering the program, Ph.D. students may submit a petition to transfer in coursework as explained below.If you have any additional questions about admissions to graduate programs at SEAS, please contact the SEAS Graduate Admissions Office via email at admissions@seas.harvard.edu.Questions about the Master in Design Engineering should be directed to designengineering@harvard.edu.Questions about the MS/MBA with Harvard Business School should be directed to msmba@hbs.edu.You may apply to a SEAS master’s program if you already have a master’s degree from another institution.The degree requirements for the Ph.D., S.M., and M.E. are available here. The S.M. and M.E. in Computational Science and Engineering have additional requirements, which are available here. The additional requirements for the S.M. in Data Science are available here.Graduate students are expected to be full time. Students may petition to change their status to part-time study only in cases with extenuating circumstances, such as health concerns or a serious family emergency.All degree programs at the School of Engineering require that coursework be completed in residence. (Note: due to COVID-19, courses may be moved to a remote delivery platform for the Fall 2020 term. This is an exception given the pandemic.)For non-credit online SEAS courses, please visit Harvard’s initiative, edX at https://www.edx.org/, for information on free online courses offered by MIT and Harvard University.The Harvard Extension School offers Master’s degree programs in various fields in science and technology areas, as well as professional certificate programs in Nanotechnology, Software Engineering and Web technologies. Some of these courses may be taken online. The Harvard Extension School and School of Engineering are wholly separate schools within Harvard University. Note that SEAS does not allow coursework taken at the Extension School it count toward our graduate degrees.All SEAS Ph.D. students must take 10 courses toward the doctoral degree. Each area has "Area Course Requirements, Guidelines, and Model Programs", which provide a good idea of the kinds of courses taken by students in Applied Physics versus the kinds of courses taken by students in Materials Science and Mechanical Engineering (for example.) Visit each area's page to see information specific to their area requirements.Students must decide, based on their own interests and future plans, whether an Applied Physics degree or an Engineering Sciences degree is a better fit.Note: admitted students can petition to change their degree program after they arrive, providing they have appropriate support from their faculty adviser, an approved program plan in the new area, and the approval of the Committee on Higher Degrees.SEAS requires that SEAS PhD students have a primary research advisor who is a member of the School's ladder faculty (which includes professors, associate professors, assistant professors, or professors in residence).. Exceptions to this policy are rare and must be approved in advance by the Director of Graduate Studies in the student’s area of study and the Academic Dean for Education.Yes, but it requires a new, complete application. Students admitted to SEAS cannot simply transfer to another department within the Harvard Griffin Graduate School of Arts and Sciences (GSAS). Students are welcome to apply to another Harvard Griffin GSAS department should they decide it’s a better fit, but that requires submitting a complete application to that department during the admissions cycle. There is not a separate process for students who wish to “transfer” from one Harvard Griffin GSAS department to another. More information can be found here.For Ph.D. students, transfers from one SEAS area to another SEAS area are handled internally. SEAS Ph.D. degrees areas include Applied Mathematics, Applied Physics, Computer Science, and Engineering Sciences, which encompasses Bioengineering, Electrical Engineering, Environmental Science & Engineering, and Materials Science & Mechanical Engineering.Masters students cannot change degree areas within SEAS.“Maybe” for Ph.D. students and “no” for masters students. Ph.D. students can petition for up to three classes taken elsewhere while enrolled in a graduate program to count toward the Ph.D. degree. All "transfer" courses must be approved by the student's faculty advisor and the Committee on Higher Degrees after the student begins graduate study.Courses taken while in an undergraduate program, even if they are graduate level, cannot be used for this purpose. Any coursework you wish to petition to transfer must have been taken while enrolled in a graduate program. Our master’s degree programs do not allow for any transfer courses.Please visit GSAS Oral English Language Requirement for information about our proficiency requirements.80 is the minimum score on the TOEFL's Internet-based Test (iBT).Applicants may opt to take the IELTS test instead of the TOEFL. A minimum score of 6.5 is required.TOEFL/IELTS scores are valid for no longer than two years. If you are applying for admission for Fall 2025, you may submit scores from tests taken no earlier than January 5, 2023. Applicants must order scores and have them sent to GSAS before the scores expire.GSAS welcomes applications for admission from individuals holding a BA, BS, or equivalent undergraduate degree (for prospective international students, a three- or four-year undergraduate degree from an institution of recognized standing) and actively seeks applicants from groups historically underrepresented in graduate schools. All degree candidates are admitted for full-time study beginning in the fall term.Students who are unsure of the US equivalency of their degree(s) should consult a reputable credential evaluation service.Please contact the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences if you have any additional questions.Please visit GSAS Oral English Language Requirement for information about our proficiency requirements.80 is the minimum score on the TOEFL's Internet-based Test (iBT). GSAS policy is that the TOEFL score must be valid at the time of entry into the program. TOEFL scores expire after two years.Applicants may opt to take the IELTS test instead of the TOEFL. A minimum score of 6.5 is required. GSAS policy is that the IELTS score must be valid at the time of entry into the program. IELTS scores expire after two years. Results should be sent to Harvard University, Graduate School of Arts and Sciences by the IELTS test center via IELTS E-Delivery service.150 Western Ave, Allston, MA 02134 29 Oxford Street, Cambridge, MA 02138